---
title: Core Team
layout: about
permalink: /team.html
---

# Core Team 

**Claire Branigan**   
[Website](https://anthro.illinois.edu/directory/profile/braniga2)  
Claire is a PhD candidate in the Department of Anthropology at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. She has conducted long-term fieldwork in Argentina for her dissertation “Ineffective Laws, Active Citizens: Demanding Justice for Femicide in Argentina,” that explores the Argentine movement against femicide and how activist discourse and ideology is translated into law. 

*Claire es candidata a doctorado en el Departamento de Antropología de la Universidad de Illinois en Urbana-Champaign. Ha realizado un trabajo de campo a largo plazo en Argentina para su tesis doctoral “Leyes ineficaces, ciudadanos activos: exigiendo justicia para el feminicidio en Argentina”, que explora el movimiento argentino contra el feminicidio y cómo el discurso y la ideología activistas se traducen en leyes.*

**Dabney P. Evans**  
[Email](mailto:dabney.evans@emory.edu)  
Dabney Evans, PhD, MPH is an Associate Professor of Global Health in Emory University’s Rollins School of Public Health. She is a mixed-methods researcher focused on the health and human rights of women and girls. Dr. Evans received her Master of Public Health degree in 1998 from Emory University and her doctoral degree in law from the University of Aberdeen (UK) in 2011.  Dr. Evans’ current research projects focus on gender-based violence, and sexual and reproductive health and rights.  Her global research portfolio includes projects on: intimate partner violence during the COVID-19 pandemic (US); the commercial sexual exploitation of children (US); femicide prevention (Brazil);  and femicide perpetration (Argentina). Dr. Evans has published over forty book chapters, scholarly articles and commissioned works; she has made over 200 peer-reviewed and invited presentations.  Her public scholarship has appeared in the Pacific Standard, the Atlanta Journal Constitution, Ms. Magazine and The Hill, where she is a regular contributor; in 2015 she presented a TEDx talk.  

*Dabney P. Evans, PhD, MPH es profesor asociado de salud global en la Escuela de Salud Pública Rollins de la Universidad de Emory (Atlanta, Georgia  EEUU). Es una investigadora de métodos mixtos centrada en la salud y los derechos humanos de mujeres y niñas. La Dra. Evans recibió su maestría en salud pública en 1998 de la Universidad de Emory y su doctorado en derecho de la Universidad de Aberdeen (Reino Unido) en 2011. Los proyectos de investigación actuales de la Dra. Evans se centran en la violencia de género y la sexualidad y la reproducción. salud y derechos. Su cartera de investigación global incluye proyectos sobre: ​​violencia de pareja durante la pandemia de COVID-19 (EE. UU.); la explotación sexual comercial de niños (EE. UU.); prevención de feminicidios (Brasil); y perpetración de femicidios (Argentina). La Dra. Evans ha publicado más de cuarenta capítulos de libros, artículos académicos y trabajos por encargo; ha realizado más de 200 presentaciones invitadas y revisadas por pares. Su beca pública ha aparecido en Pacific Standard,  Atlanta Journal Constitution, Ms. Magazine y The Hill, donde es colaboradora habitual; en 2015 presentó una charla TEDx talk.*

**Martín Hernán Di Marco**  
[Email](mailto:mardimarco@sociales.uba.ar) | [ResearchGate](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Martin-Di-Marco)  
*Martín es sociólogo, epidemiólogo y becario doctoral del Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Científicas y Técnicas (CONICET) de Argentina. Es docente de la Universidad de Buenos Aires y de la Universidad Nacional de La Matanza. Fue becado y ha obtenido subsidios de SVRI, Colef y London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, entre otras instituciones. Investiga temas de violencia, masculinidades y muertes violentas, indagando en las vidas de quienes ejercieron la violencia.*  

Martín Hernán Di Marco is a sociologist and epidemiologist, and currently a PhD candidate from the National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET), Argentina. He has teaching positions in Buenos Aires University and La Matanza National University. He has been awarded grants and scholarships from SVRI, Colef and London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, amongst other instituciones. He conducts research on violence, masculinities and violent deaths, by studying the biographies of perpetrators.  

**Dolores Figueroa Romero**   
Dolores Figueroa Romero is a researcher at the Center for Research and Advanced Studies in  Social Anthropology (CIESAS) in Mexico City. Dr. Figueroa’s academic expertise focuses  on conceptualizing structural, social and extreme violence against indigenous women in  rural areas and critically dialoguing with the anti-racist feminist advocacy work in Mexico.  During the last two years, she was part of an initiative aimed at creating networks between  social researchers, technicians and indigenous women's organizations, such as the National  Coordination of Indigenous Women of Mexico (CONAMI) to strengthen their community  initiative called "Community Emergency of Violence" to build a database to document  various types of violence that impact indigenous women and their peoples in various  regions of Mexico.   

Dr. Figueroa has published numerous articles in refereed academic journals and chapters in  edited volumes on violence against indigenous women in Guerrero, such as: “Defensoras  comunitarias, violencias múltiples y búsqueda de justicia en territorios indígenas Tlapa de  Comonfort, Guerrero” 2020, with María Teresa Sierra and Marisol Alcocer; “Anti-Manual  for conducting workshops with survivors of grave human rights violations through a  territorial and participatory focus”; with Teresa Sierra Camacho (2020) “Alertas de género  y mujeres indígenas: interpelando las políticas públicas desde los contextos comunitarios en  Guerrero, México,” in the Canadian Journal of Latin American and Caribbean Studies;  (2019) “Políticas de Feminicidio en México: Perspectivas interseccionales de mujeres  indígenas para reconsiderar su definición teórica-legal y las metodología de recolección de  datos” in Journal of International Women’s Studies.  

**Laura Hernández Pérez**  
*Mujer indígena de raíces nahuas, de madre y padre migrantes que llegaron a radicar en el municipio de Nezahualcóyotl, Estado de México. Licenciada en Trabajo Social y pasante de la Especialización en Modelos de Intervención con Jóvenes de la Escuela Nacional de Trabajo Social en la UNAM. Actualmente es integrante del Colectivo Yehcoa Um, coordinadora región centro de la Coordinación General Colegiada de la Coordinadora Nacional de Mujeres Indígenas CONAMI México y punto focal de la Región México del Enlace Continental de Mujeres Indígenas de las Américas ECMIA.*    

Laura Hernández Pérez is an Indigenous woman of Nahua roots, with a migrant mother and father who came to live in the municipality of Nezahualcóyotl, State of Mexico. She graduated in Social Work with an internship in the Specialization in Models of Intervention with Young People (National School of Social Work at UNAM). She is currently a member of the Yehcoa Um Collective, central region, coordinator of the Collegiate General Coordination of the National Coordinator of Indigenous WomenCONAMI Mexico, and focal point of the Mexico Region of the Continental Link of Indigenous Women of the Americas ECMIA.  

**Sarah Alice Campbell**  
Sarah is an Assistant Professor of Theatre History, Literature, and Criticism in the University of Idaho’s Theatre Arts Department. She holds a Ph.D. in Theatre and Drama with a minor in Folklore and a Ph.D. Certificate in Latin American and Caribbean Studies from Indiana University. Her article, “‘La conjura de Xinum’ and Language Revitalization: Understanding Maya Agency through Theatre,” was recently published in the [*Journal of American Drama and Theatre.*](https://jadtjournal.org/2020/05/23/la-conjura-de-xinum-and-language-revitalization-understanding-maya-agency-through-theatre/) Sarah’s research interests include contemporary Yucatec Maya language theatre and how theatre is used as part of the anti-feminicidio movement in Mexico. As a theatre practitioner, Sarah has worked as an actor, director, in publicity and marketing, and as a dramaturg. She is especially passionate about new play development. 

**Sonia Madrigal**  
[Website](soniamadrigal.com) | [Instagram](www.instagram.com/sonicarol)   
*Sonia Madrigal vive y trabaja en Nezahualcóyotl (Estado de México). Su obra explora distintas narrativas visuales para reflexionar, de manera personal y colectiva, en torno al cuerpo, la violencia y el territorio enfocándose principalmente en el Oriente del Estado de México. Estudió la Lic. en Informática en la UNAM. Cursó el Seminario de Producción Fotográfica 2016 del Centro de la Imagen bajo la tutoría de Verónica Gerber Bicecci. Forma parte del Sistema Nacional de Creadores de Arte del FONCA desde 2020. Fue becada para realizar una residencia en el Encuentro de Colectivos de Geografía Crítica y Geografías Autónomas (Ecuador, 2019). Ha participado en exposiciones tanto en México como en el extranjero, y publicado su trabajo en medios como Harper's Magazine (Nueva York, 2020), Aperture Magazine (Nueva York, 2019 y 2021) y el diario británico The Guardian (Inglaterra, 2017).*  

Sonia Madrigal lives and works in Nezahualcóyotl (Estado de México). His work explores different visual narratives that reflect, personally and collectively, on the body, violence and territory, focusing mainly on the East of the State of Mexico. She studied Computer Science at UNAM. She attended the 2016 Photographic Production Seminar of the Image Center under the mentorship of Verónica Gerber Bicecci. She has been part of the National System of Art Creators of FONCA since 2020. She was awarded a scholarship to carry out a residency at the Meeting of Critical Geography and Autonomous Geography Collectives (Ecuador, 2019). She has participated in exhibitions both in Mexico and abroad, and published her work in media such as *Harper's Magazine* (New York, 2020), *Aperture Magazine* (New York, 2019 and 2021) and the British newspaper *The Guardian* (England, 2017).
